ENSIP14: Platform Source Parameter (#127)
ensdomains/docs: ens-improvement-proposals/ensip-XX-platform-source-parameter.md

---
**Authors**: @slobo.eth and Avsa.eth

---
**Status**: draft

> ---

Reviewer: This needs a 'description' header and the authors and status should be in a table. Please see other ENSIPs for reference to the format.

### Abstract

> There are many reasons that we might want to be able to measure how and where users are registering names. One of them is simply by knowing our own ecosystem and which apps are more popular, but it’s also very important to be able to identify the creators who are helping the ecosystem. Retroactive funding via grants is often better than proactive funding because you can detect what has already worked, instead of stewards having to make bets on what they think would happen. Often in this community we are surprised by things becoming popular that we would never be able to predict. On the other hand, it’s important to make the process transparent, open source and privacy preserving. Havsource data would also facilitate attempts to create referral programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many reasons that we might want to be able to measure how and where users are registering names. One of them is simply by knowing our own ecosystem and which apps are more popular, but it’s also very important to be able to identify the creators who are helping the ecosystem. Retroactive funding via grants is often better than proactive funding because you can detect what has already worked, instead of stewards having to make bets on what they think would happen. Often in this community we are surprised by things becoming popular that we would never be able to predict. On the other hand, it’s important to make the process transparent, open source and privacy preserving. Having source data would also facilitate attempts to create referral programs.
```

### Specification

> The ETH Registrar Controller takes as input: name, owner, duration, secret and resolver. The secret parameter is random data that obscures the name before the final step of the registration process is complete. It is 32 bytes of entropy and the ens manager app on app.ens.domains generates it by calling the following:

Reviewer: Probably better not to specify all the arguments, as this is changing - just specify that there's a secret parameter.

`require('crypto').randomBytes(32)`

> This proposal suggests a social convention that generates the secret from a combination of taking the first **6 characters of a namehash**, add another **6 characters for extra data** and combines it with the appropriate number of random bytes.

Reviewer: This should really be annotated in bytes, not in hex characters. 6 characters is 3 bytes, which is an odd unit to choose; wouldn't 4 bytes for each make most sense?

Author: I have to admit I use hex because I work on frontends. But I think you're correct that it should be 4 bytes, as it expands the space.

This way the first 6 char of the secret would be the platform name and the next 6 would be reserved for internal data for that platform – like its own referral code. So for example if the above was registered via ensfairy the secret would be:

> 0x **1b7f8b** **612c63** 3cbcc635528d3b7196bc89d13566c1be2068af0cad6fb3ecebf0

> With this we can attribute registrations using the first 12 chars of the secret. The loss of entropy of 48 bytes is not relevant, since the only goal of the secret is to obscure the details of the bid to avoid front-running during the short period (usually a few minutes but it could be as long as a week) before the reveal transaction is executed. The secret still retains 208 bytes which is highly secure, specially for a short time frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this we can attribute registrations using the first 12 chars of the secret. The loss of entropy of 48 bits is not relevant, since the only goal of the secret is to obscure the details of the bid to avoid front-running during the short period (usually a few minutes but it could be as long as a week) before the reveal transaction is executed. The secret still retains 208 bits which is highly secure, especially for a short time frame.
```

Since the source code is derived from the namehash, it's not reversible. Therefore, some sort of registry of names is needed to make sense of these names. Such registrars could be made on chain or simply be a git text file with multiple forks over many repos. A registrar definition is outside the scope of this ENSIP because if the ground truth was on-chain it would be relatively easy to game. 

With purely a random number, it would take about 1800 registrants to create a 10% chance of an accidental collision, and by 4800 registrants that chance increases to 50%. Since each code is expected to be used by registrar apps and websites, and not users (that's what the extra data is for), we expect that number to be below a thousand and such collisions to be rare. But of course, it's trivial to generate such collisions or spam the registry, and therefore instead of trying to play that securityy cat and mouse, we would rather leave the "truth" of the codes to its usage. If someone is using them to create a ranking website, or launch a referral program, each should simply exercise common sense to maintain their own copy of that registry for the top of the ranking.

### Other questions

> Isn’t it possible to add other platform codes in yours? Yes. We don’t see that as a concern, since platforms probably want to maximize their own numbers

Reviewer: This should probably be outside the ENSIP.
